European Union GDPR Data Processing Addendum
============================================

The Provider requires the Customer to accept the provisions of this Data Processing Addendum ("**DPA**") which is intended to meet the data protection adequacy and security requirements of the GDPR-Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC. Therefore, if the GDPR applies to the Customer's activity (for instance because the Customer is established in the European Union or established outside the European Union but the Customer offers good or services to data subjects who are in the European Union) — the Customer needs to accept these Data Processing Addendum terms to be compliant with GDPR so that the Customer can process such GDPR-eligible personal data with the Provider. Unless the Customer accepts the Agreement involving this DPA the Customer's contract with the Provider will lack those terms therefore if GDPR applies to the Customer's activity the Customer must refrain from using the Provider's Service unless the Customer accepts this DPA.

1.  The terms "**personal data**", "**data subject**", "**processing**", "**controller**", "**processor**" and "**supervisory authority**" as used in this DPA have the meanings given in the GDPR.
2.  For the reasons mentioned above, if the Customer with any connection to the EEA, as stated  above, chooses to accept Terms and Conditions and enter the Agreement, the Customer enters this Data Protection Agreement which reflects the conditions governing processing and security of the personal data the Customer submits to the Provider's system or which may be processed by the Customer when connect the Customer's e-mail account thereto, i.e. submitted, stored, sent or received via the our Platform and App, hereinafter referred to as the "Customer Data". Please note that whenever the word "the Customer" is used in this DPA, it means any persons who use the Services on the Customer's behalf, including the Customer's employees, subcontractors and other personnel members.
3.  In accordance with the GDPR regulations, this DPA shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of Ireland as a European Union's member state. The DPA is concluded for the whole period from the acceptance of the Agreement and this DPA until the end of the Provider's provision of the Services under the Agreement, which shall include periods of suspension of Services' provision or other post-termination periods when the Provider may refrain from deleting the Customer's data.
4.  The Customer Data will be processed via the Provider's Services and for the purpose to provide the Customer with full functionalities of the Provider's Services and Website and related operational and technical support related to the Customer's usage of the services so the duration of the processing will last until the expiry of this DPA or until deletion of all the Customer Data. The Provider will process the Customer Data in accordance with our Privacy Policy.
5.  The Provider shall not be the controller of the Customer Data the Customer may submit to the Provider's Services and will process such information within the Services solely in the processor's role and – depending on the scope of the Customer's activity – the Customer may be the controller or processor of this data. If the GDPR applies to the processing of Customer Data and the Customer is the processor, the Customer explicitly warrants the Provider that the Customer's instructions and actions with respect to that Customer Data processing, including hereby appointment of the Provider as another processor, have been authorized by the relevant controller.
6.  The personal data which may be processed (i.e. submitted, stored, sent or received) by the Customer when the Customer uses the Services may include the following categories of data: names, e-mail address, telephone, profession, company's name and address, city and country of the company, user IDs, presentations, images, calendar entries and other data which may be relevant for the Customer's purposes of permitted usage of the Provider's Services.
7.  The Customer Data which the Customer may process might concern the following categories of data subjects: users of the Services who may include the Customer's employees and contractors, the personnel of the Customer's customers, suppliers and subcontractors or any other person who transmits data via the Services, including any individuals collaborating and communicating with users of the Services.
8.  If the explicit consent of data subject is the legal basis to process the Customer Data via the Provider's Systems, the Customer represents and warrants the Provider that each such consent is freely given and taken in accordance with applicable laws. In this context the Customer indemnify the Provider of all claims and actions of third parties related to the processing of Customer Data via Services without explicit consent or other legal basis under the respective laws.
9.  By entering this DPA the Customer instructs the Provider to process Customer Data only in accordance with applicable laws and only to:
10.  Provide the Services', App's and Website's functionalities and related customer and technical support;
11.  To provide you with our actions, services and support specified by your usage of the Services and demanded when you use the Services (such as sending e-mail messages, campaign settings, etc.); or,
12.  As further documented in herein DPA, Terms of Services, Privacy Policy or otherwise documented in any instructions you may give us in writing, via e-mail or other written electronic communication and that we acknowledge as constituting instructions for the Customer Data processing.
13.  We will comply with your instructions (including with regard to international personal data transfers) unless any European Union or European Union member states' law we could be potentially subject to requires us to otherwise process the Customer Data. If this is the case, we will inform you on this obligation (unless law prohibits us to do so on important grounds of public interest). We will also inform you if your instruction for data processing if we believe it may infringe regulations of the GDPR.
14.  We enable you to delete Customer Data during this DPA by using functionalities within Services – including moving data to archive for limited period or by instant permanent deletion. If the term indicated above expires or you choose to delete data permanently, the Customer Data may not be recovered. Each of such actions will be acknowledged as your instruction to delete relevant Customer Data you submitted or keep within our systems. When the Agreement is terminated or otherwise expires, we shall delete your data, including Customer Data, and/or give you their copy (return them) subject the terms of Agreement.
15.  Under this DPA the Customer authorities the Provider to engage any other third parties as other processors and therefore –the Provider will inform the Customer about such planned engagement and the Customer is authorized to object to such appointment terminating the Agreement within 90 days written notice. If the Provider engages another processor for carrying out specific processing activities on the Customer's behalf (which is unlikely), the same data protection obligations as set out in the DPA will be imposed on that other processor, including in particular providing sufficient guarantees to implement appropriate technical and organizational measures in such a manner that the processing will meet the requirements of the GDPR.
16.  The Provider has implemented and will maintain all the appropriate technical and organizational measures to protect Customer Data to ensure a level of security against accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure or access to Customer Data, including encryption of personal data, introducing and maintaining systems ensuring the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of processing, systems ensuring ability to restore the availability and access to Customer Data in the event of a physical or technical incident.
17.  The Customer shall acknowledge that the above-mentioned technical and organizational measures to protect Customer Data involve i.a.: physical security, logical security, separation of databases, policy regarding the removal of magnetic and optical data (including hard drives, portable storage media, backup platforms, etc.), procedures regarding database management, provisions regarding the collection, marking, verification, processing, and distribution of the data, management of access to personnel, including determination of the methodology for providing access to data, restrictions upon access, and keeping an updated list of persons with access rights, confidentiality undertakings for those persons with access rights, encryption of personal data, provisions regarding operations of the systems and maintaining ongoing data integrity, confidentiality, availability and resilience of processing systems and services, monitoring for the discovery of breaches of data integrity and methodology for reparation of such breaches, provisions regarding employee reliability and record of data misuse in accordance with the level of data sensitivity. We shall also regularly test, assess and evaluating the effectiveness of technical and organizational measures for ensuring the security of the Customer Data processing.
18.  If the Customer has further questions on the Provider's technical and organizational means for personal data protection the Customer shall inquire the Provider to provide the Customer with additional information prior to submitting Customer Data to the Provider's systems or it shall be otherwise considered that the Customer agreed that taking into account the state of the art, the costs of implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing of Customer Data as well as the risks to individuals our data protection standards are appropriate to the risk in respect of the Customer Data.
19.  The Provider also ensures that their employees, contractors and sub-processors have committed themselves to confidentiality or are under an appropriate statutory obligation of confidentiality to the extent applicable to their scope of performance.
20.  If the Provider becomes aware of a data incident – meaning a breach of security leading to the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure of, or access to, Customer Data on systems managed by or otherwise controlled by the Provider, excluding unsuccessful attempts or activities that do not compromise the security of Customer Data, unsuccessful log-in attempts, pings, port scans, denial of service attacks, and other network attacks on firewalls or networked systems – we will notify the Customer of the Data Incident promptly and without undue delay and promptly take reasonable steps to minimize harm and secure Customer Data. Such Data Incident notification will describe, to the extent possible, details of the Data Incident, including steps taken to mitigate the potential risks and steps the Provider may recommend to address the Data Incident. The Provider will deliver such notification to the Customer's e-mail address or, at the Provider's discretion, by phone call or other direct communication. It is the Customer's sole responsibility to provide the Provider with and update the Customer's current and valid contact information. Neither of the Provider's notifications or communications regarding Data Incidents shall be construed as an acknowledgement of fault or liability with respect to the Data Incident.
21.  By entering this DPA the Customer explicitly acknowledges, agrees and confirms that the Provider will never assess the contents of Customer Data the Customer may submit, store, send or receive using the Provider's Services in order to identify information subject to any specific legal requirements or to assess the Customer's compliance with any laws or infringements thereof. Therefore the Customer is solely responsible for complying with applicable incident notification laws and fulfilling any third party notification obligations related to any Data Incident(s).
22.  The Customer agrees that, without prejudice, the Customer shall be solely responsible for their use of the Services, including: making appropriate use of the Services and exercise adequate security controls to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk in respect of the Customer Data, securing the account authentication credentials, systems and devices which the Customer may use to access the Services and backing up their Customer Data.
23.  As we provide solely online Services we shall have no obligation to protect Customer Data that the Customer may choose to store or transfer outside of the Provider's systems, for instance for physical storage – in any form. If the Customer has further questions on the Provider's technical and organizational means for personal data protection the Customer shall inquire the Provider to provide additional information prior to submitting Customer Data to the Provider's systems or it shall be otherwise considered that the Customer agrees that taking into account the state of the art, the costs of implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing of Customer Data as well as the risks to individuals our data protection standards are appropriate to the risk in respect of the Customer Data.
24.  Notwithstanding the Provider's obligations in respect to this DPA, the Customer shall also take all the reasonable precaution steps in order to ensure appropriate security and to prevent any destruction, loss, alteration, disclosure, unauthorized or illegal access to or acquirement of Customer Data and any other personal data the Customer may process using via the Provider's Services. If the data the Customer processes via Services were accessed or obtained by an unauthorized person or if there occurs a breach of such personal data security, the Customer shall immediately notify the Provider on such Data Incident and shall cooperate with the Provider in order to take any steps deemed required for the mitigation of any loss or damage.
25.  If the Customer breaches any obligations they may have under the GDPR the Customer shall be unconditionally and solely liable and it shall compensate the Provider and any third parties or data subjects against (a) any damage, loss, costs, taxes and expenses (including legal charges related to judicial experts and lawyers), (b) the refund of any fines or penalties paid by us to the supervisory authority, (c) any other damages resulting from the negligence, fault or gross misconduct or from any breach of an obligation related to Customer Data and other personal data processed via the Services as a consequence of non-complying with this DPA and the GDPR.
26.  The Provider will consider any breach of any representation or provision of the DPA and the GDPR by the Customer shall represent a gross breach of the Agreement and it shall entitle the Provider to terminate the Agreement immediately by sending a termination notice, without any grace or remedy period and without any other formality, notification or intervention of any court of law or another jurisdictional body.
27.  To the extent necessary for the reason of this DPA, the Provider will make available for the Customer's review the documents and information to demonstrate our compliance with our obligations under this DPA.
28.  If GDPR applies to the processing of Customer Data, we will also allow the Customer or the Customer's appointed independent auditor to conduct audits (including inspections) to verify the Provider's compliance with obligations under this DPA, including the Provider's documentation and we will contribute to such audits. In any case such audits will be subject to prior arrangements and reasonably agreed terms for such audits and inspections which may involve fees based on our reasonable costs of such reviews. If the Customer wishes to appoint an auditor, the Provider may object to the Customer's choice if in the Provider's reasonable opinion the appointed auditor is not suitably qualified or independent, a competitor of the Provider or otherwise manifestly unsuitable. If this is the case the Provider will require the Customer to appoint another auditor or conduct the audit itself.
29.  If applicable, the Provider will assist the Customer in ensuring compliance with any of the Customer's obligations in respect of data protection impact assessments and prior consultation, including if applicable the Customer's obligations pursuant to Articles 35 and 36 of the GDPR, taking into account the nature of the processing and the information available to the Provider, for instance by providing additional security information or providing the information with regard to performance of the Agreement including this Data Processing Addendum.
30.  During the term of the Agreement, the Provider will enable the Customer to access, rectify and restrict processing of Customer Data, including deletion of this data (subject to the hereinabove terms) and to export Customer Data – in a manner consistent with the functionalities of the Services.
31.  If the Provider receives any request from a data subject in relation to Customer Data the Provider may process, the Provider will advise the data subject to submit their request to the Customer and the Customer shall be responsible for responding to any such request including, where necessary, by using the functionality of the Services. Nevertheless, taking into account the nature of the processing of Customer Data via the Services, the Provider will assist the Customer in fulfilling any obligation to respond to requests by data subjects, including obligation to respond to requests for exercising the data subject's rights laid down in Chapter III of the GDPR. Depending on the case, the Provider may provide you Services' functionalities to perform our commitments you assist you or we may help you in other appropriate manner, including serving you with additional information on processing of Customer Data.
32.  Shall the Customer have any questions in respect of this Data Protection Addendum, please contact the Provider at:[notifications@rennoco.com](mailto:notifications@rennoco.com).